In C/C++, programmer is responsible for both creation and destruction of objects.
Usually programmer neglects destruction of useless objects.
Due to this negligence, at certain point, for creation of new objects,
sufficient memory may not be available and entire program will terminate abnormally causing OutOfMemoryErrors.

But in Java, the programmer need not to care for all those objects which are no longer in use.
Garbage collector destroys these objects.
Garbage collector is best example of Daemon thread as it is always running in background.
Main objective of Garbage Collector is to free heap memory by destroying unreachable objects.

Important terms :

Unreachable objects : An object is said to be unreachable iff it doesn’t contain any reference to it.
Also note that objects which are part of island of isolation are also unreachable.

Eligibility for garbage collection : An object is said to be eligible for GC(garbage collection) iff it is unreachable.
Even though the programmer is not responsible to destroy useless objects but it is highly recommended
to make an object unreachable(thus eligible for GC) if it is no longer required.

There are generally four different ways to make an object eligible for garbage collection.
Nullifying the reference variable
Re-assigning the reference variable
Object created inside method
Island of Isolation

Ways for requesting JVM to run Garbage Collector
Once we made object eligible for garbage collection, it may not destroy immediately by the garbage collector.
Whenever JVM runs the Garbage Collector program, then only the object will be destroyed.
But when JVM runs Garbage Collector, we can not expect.

We can also request JVM to run Garbage Collector. There are two ways to do it :
Using System.gc() method : System class contain static method gc() for requesting JVM to run Garbage Collector.
Using Runtime.getRuntime().gc() method : Runtime class allows the application to interface with the JVM in which the application is running.
Hence by using its gc() method, we can request JVM to run Garbage Collector.

Note:There is no guarantee that any one of above two methods will definitely run Garbage Collector.
The call System.gc() is effectively equivalent to the call : Runtime.getRuntime().gc()

Finalization
Just before destroying an object, Garbage Collector calls finalize() method on the object to perform cleanup activities.
Once finalize() method completes, Garbage Collector destroys that object.
finalize() method is present in Object class with following prototype.
protected void finalize() throws Throwable
Based on our requirement, we can override finalize() method for perform our cleanup activities like closing connection from database.

Note :
The finalize() method called by Garbage Collector not JVM. Although Garbage Collector is one of the module of JVM.
Object class finalize() method has empty implementation,
thus it is recommended to override finalize() method to dispose of system resources or to perform other cleanup.
The finalize() method is never invoked more than once for any given object.
If an uncaught exception is thrown by the finalize() method, the exception is ignored and finalization of that object terminates.