A class is a user defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created.
It represents the set of properties or methods that are common to all objects of one type.
In general, class declarations can include these components, in order:

Modifiers : A class can be public or has default access (Refer this for details).
Class name: The name should begin with a initial letter (capitalized by convention).
Superclass(if any): The name of the class’s parent (superclass), if any, preceded by the keyword extends.
A class can only extend (subclass) one parent.
Interfaces(if any): A comma-separated list of interfaces implemented by the class, if any, preceded by the keyword implements.
A class can implement more than one interface.
Body: The class body surrounded by braces, { }.
Constructors are used for initializing new objects.
Fields are variables that provides the state of the class and its objects, and methods are used to implement the behavior of the class and its objects.

Types of classes in Java

Concrete class
Any normal class which does not have any abstract method or a class that has an implementation of all the methods
of its parent class or interface and its own methods is a concrete class.

Abstract class
A class declared with abstract keyword and have zero or more abstract methods are known as abstract class.
The abstract classes are incomplete classes, therefore, to use we strictly need to extend the abstract classes to a concrete class.

Final class
A class declared with the final keyword is a final class and it cannot be extended by another class, for example, java.lang.System class.

POJO class
A class that contains only private variables and setter and getter methods to use those variables is called POJO (Plain Old Java Object) class.
It is a fully encapsulated class.

Static class
Static classes are nested classes means a class declared within another class as a static member is called a static class.

Inner Class
A class declared within another class or method is called an inner class.