These terms signify the relationships between classes.
These are the building blocks of object oriented programming and very basic stuff.

Association
Association is a relationship between two objects. In other words, association defines the multiplicity between objects.
You may be aware of one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-one, many-to-many all these words define an association between objects.
Aggregation is a special form of association. Composition is a special form of aggregation.

Example: A Student and a Faculty are having an association.

Aggregation
Aggregation is a special case of association.
A directional association between objects. When an object ‘has-a’ another object, then you have got an aggregation between them.
Direction between them specified which object contains the other object. Aggregation is also called a “Has-a” relationship.

Composition
Composition is a special case of aggregation. In a more specific manner, a restricted aggregation is called composition.
When an object contains the other object, if the contained object cannot exist without the existence of container object, then it is called composition.

Example: A class contains students. A student cannot exist without a class. There exists composition between class and students.

Difference between aggregation and composition
Composition is more restrictive. When there is a composition between two objects, the composed object cannot exist without the other object.
This restriction is not there in aggregation. Though one object can contain the other object, there is no condition that the composed object must exist.
The existence of the composed object is entirely optional. In both aggregation and composition, direction is must.
The direction specifies, which object contains the other object.

Example: A Library contains students and books. Relationship between library and student is aggregation.
Relationship between library and book is composition. A student can exist without a library and therefore it is aggregation.
A book cannot exist without a library and therefore its a composition.